Blog: Januscape & Bad Epoll kernel vulnerabilities — call for testing (#1094)
AlmaLinux/almalinux.org: content/blog/2026-07-06-januscape-bad-epoll.md

---
title: "Two kernel vulnerabilities, Januscape and Bad Epoll: Call for testing"
type: blog
author:
  name: "Andrew Lukoshko"
  bio: "AlmaLinux Lead Architect"
  image: /users/alukoshko.jpg
date: "2026-07-06"
images:
  - /blog-images/2026/2026-07-06-januscape-bad-epoll.png
post:
  title: "We are shipping patched kernels for two serious flaws: Januscape (CVE-2026-53359), a KVM/x86 guest-to-host escape that gives an attacker root on the host, and Bad Epoll (CVE-2026-46242), a local privilege escalation. Januscape affects every AlmaLinux release; Bad Epoll affects AlmaLinux 9 and 10. Patched kernels are in the testing repository now — please help us verify them."
  image: /blog-images/2026/2026-07-06-januscape-bad-epoll.png
---

> We are shipping patched kernels for **two** serious Linux kernel vulnerabilities and would like your help verifying them before they go to production. The first, **Januscape** ([CVE-2026-53359](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2026-53359)), is a KVM/x86 guest-to-host escape: an attacker who can start a virtual machine can break out and run commands as root on the host. The second, **Bad Epoll** ([CVE-2026-46242](https://github.com/J-jaeyoung/bad-epoll)), is a use-after-free in the kernel's epoll subsystem that lets an unprivileged local user escalate to root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are shipping patched kernels for **two** serious Linux kernel vulnerabilities and would like your help verifying them before they go to production. The first, **Januscape** ([CVE-2026-53359](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2026-53359)), is a KVM/x86 guest-to-host escape: an attacker with access to a VM with nested virtualization enabled can break out and run commands as root on the hypervisor, and/or crash the hypervisor. The second, **Bad Epoll** ([CVE-2026-46242](https://github.com/J-jaeyoung/bad-epoll)), is a use-after-free in the kernel's epoll subsystem that lets an unprivileged local user escalate to root.
```

> We are shipping patched kernels for **two** serious Linux kernel vulnerabilities and would like your help verifying them before they go to production. The first, **Januscape** ([CVE-2026-53359](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2026-53359)), is a KVM/x86 guest-to-host escape: an attacker with access to a VM with nested virtualization enabled can break out and run commands as root on the hypervisor, and/or crash the hypervisor. The second, **Bad Epoll** ([CVE-2026-46242](https://github.com/J-jaeyoung/bad-epoll)), is a use-after-free in the kernel's epoll subsystem that lets an unprivileged local user escalate to root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are shipping patched kernels for **two** serious Linux kernel vulnerabilities and would like your help verifying them before they go to production. The first, **Januscape** ([CVE-2026-53359](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2026-53359)), is a flaw in KVM/x86 with several distinct impacts. In its most serious form it is a guest-to-host escape: an attacker who can start a virtual machine can break out and run commands as root on the host. The same bug can also be used from inside a guest to crash the host kernel, a denial of service against every other tenant on that machine. And on any host where the KVM modules are loaded and /dev/kvm is world-accessible at 0666, as it is by default, an unprivileged local user can trigger it to gain root with no virtual machine in use at all. The second, **Bad Epoll** ([CVE-2026-46242](https://github.com/J-jaeyoung/bad-epoll)), is a use-after-free in the kernel's epoll subsystem that lets an unprivileged local user escalate to root.
```

> We are shipping patched kernels for **two** serious Linux kernel vulnerabilities and would like your help verifying them before they go to production. The first, **Januscape** ([CVE-2026-53359](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2026-53359)), is a flaw in KVM/x86 with several distinct impacts. In its most serious form it is a guest-to-host escape: an attacker who can start a virtual machine can break out and run commands as root on the host. The same bug can also be used from inside a guest to crash the host kernel, a denial of service against every other tenant on that machine. And on any host where the KVM modules are loaded and /dev/kvm is world-accessible at 0666, as it is by default, an unprivileged local user can trigger it to gain root with no virtual machine in use at all. The second, **Bad Epoll** ([CVE-2026-46242](https://github.com/J-jaeyoung/bad-epoll)), is a use-after-free in the kernel's epoll subsystem that lets an unprivileged local user escalate to root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are shipping patched kernels for **two** serious Linux kernel vulnerabilities and would like your help verifying them before they go to production. The first, **Januscape** ([CVE-2026-53359](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2026-53359)), is a flaw in KVM/x86 with several distinct impacts. In its most serious form it is a guest-to-host escape: an attacker who can start a virtual machine can break out and run commands as root on the host. The same bug can also be used from inside a guest to crash the host kernel, a denial of service against every other tenant on that machine. And on any host where the KVM modules are loaded and `/dev/kvm` is world-accessible at `0666`, as it is by default, an unprivileged local user can trigger it to gain root with no virtual machine in use at all. The second, **Bad Epoll** ([CVE-2026-46242](https://github.com/J-jaeyoung/bad-epoll)), is a use-after-free in the kernel's epoll subsystem that lets an unprivileged local user escalate to root.
```
